Changelog v1.4 (#54)
meilisearch/engine-team: meilisearch-release-changelog/v1.4.0.md

```json
{
    "dictionary": ["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."],
    "synonyms": {
            "J.R.R.": ["jrr", "J. R. R."],
            "J. R. R.": ["jrr", "J.R.R."],
            "jrr": ["J.R.R.", "J. R. R."],
    }
}
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Other improvements

Meilisearch better hides your data and no longer shows hidden document's fields in error messages. In case you are trying to sort by using a field that is not sortable but there are some of them that are not displayed either, you will see a message like the following:

```
Available sortable attributes are: price, stock, <..hidden-attributes>.
```

Done by @vivek-26 in #3945

# Fixes 🐞

* Fix synonyms display (#3946) @ManyTheFish
* Fix thai synonyms (#4033) @Kerollmops
* Fix synonyms with separators (#3994) @ManyTheFish
* Fix the swap index tasks (#4041) @irevoire
* Fix highlighting bug when searching for a phrase with cropping (#4028) @vivek-26
* Empty arrays/objects now return empty instead of null (#3997) @dogukanakkaya
* Fix the stats of the documents deletion by filter (#4053) @irevoire
* `\` can now be used at the end of the `filter` search parameter values (#4038 and #4043) @Kerollmops

> ## 🔴 Usage breaking change following `filter` bug fix

Author: @Kerollmops @irevoire 😇

⚠️ This section only concerns users using the `filter` search parameter with `\` characters in the filter expression.

In this version, we fixed a bug regarding `\` in the `filter` search parameter expression. **Before v1.4.0, the users were not able to express all the filter expression they wanted.**

For example, if you add the following documents:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "path": "my\\test\\path"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "path": "my\\test\\path\\"
  }
]
```

(`\\` escaping here is about JSON escaping)

Before v1.4.0, if you wanted to filter on document 2, the filters `path = "my\\test\\path\\"` and `path = "my\\test\\path\\\"` led to an error.

> Now, in v1.4.0, you can express all the possible filter expressions, no matter if the filter contains `\` or not. But to reach this, **you have escape all the `\` characters in your filter**.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, in v1.4.0, you can express all the possible filter expressions, no matter if the filter contains `\` or not. But to reach this, **you have to escape all the `\` characters in your filter**.
```

> Following our example, to finally succeed in filtering on document 2, the filter should be: `path = "my\\\\test\\\\path\\\\"`.

Reviewer: On this line, the JSON and filtering escaping are visible:
`\\\\` is giving the filter a `\\` and the filter gives us a single `\`.

In this version, we fixed a bug regarding `\` in the `filter` search parameter expression. **Before v1.4.0, the users were not able to express all the filter expression they wanted.**

For example, if you add the following documents:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "path": "my\\test\\path"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "path": "my\\test\\path\\"
  }
]
```

(`\\` escaping here is about JSON escaping)

Before v1.4.0, if you wanted to filter on document 2, the filters `path = "my\\test\\path\\"` and `path = "my\\test\\path\\\"` led to an error.

Now, in v1.4.0, you can express all the possible filter expressions, no matter if the filter contains `\` or not. But to reach this, **you have to escape all the `\` characters in your filter**.

Following our example, to finally succeed in filtering on document 2, the filter should be: `path = "my\\\\test\\\\path\\\\"`.

👉 If you come from v1.3.X or before, and you used `\` in `filter`, here is the change to apply: following our example, to filter on document 1, before v1.4.0, you could apply the filter `path = "my\\test\\path"`. Now, from v1.4.0, you have to escape the `\` and apply the following filter: `path = "my\\\\test\\\\path"`.

> Two escapings are applied: the JSON escaping and the Meilisearch filter escaping. The Meilisearch filter transforms the `\\\\` into `\\` and the JSON parsing ends up with a single `\`.

Reviewer: Nope that the other way around:
```suggestion
Two escapings are applied: the JSON escaping and the Meilisearch filter escaping. The JSON unescaping transforms the `\\\\` into `\\` and the Meilisearch filter unescaping ends up with a single `\`.
```

# v1.4.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

> Meilisearch v1.4 introduces features to improve the relevancy of the Meilisearch results by adding three news settings: `nonSeparatorTokens`, `separatorTokens` and `dictionary`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meilisearch v1.4 improves the search result relevancy by introducing three new settings: `nonSeparatorTokens`, `separatorTokens` and `dictionary`.
```

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Customize text separators

> The Meilisearch word segmentation uses a default list of separators to segment words. This default list might not sometimes fit your use case: the `nonSeparatorTokens`/`separatorTokens`` setting allows you to remove/add some tokens from/to the default list of separators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meilisearch word segmentation uses a list of characters to separate one word for another. The `nonSeparatorTokens` and `separatorTokens` index settings allow you to configure this to better fit your dataset.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meilisearch word segmentation uses a list of characters to separate one word from another. The `nonSeparatorTokens` and `separatorTokens` index settings allow you to configure this to better fit your dataset.
```

> To remove tokens:
> 
> ```bash
> curl \
>   -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/non-separator-tokens' \
>   -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
>   --data-binary '["@", "#", "&"]'
> ```
> 
> To add tokens:
> ```bash
> curl \
>   -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/separator-tokens' \
>   -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
>   --data-binary '["&sect;", "&sep"]'
> ```

Reviewer 2: I find it a bit easier to understand this if we begin with the setting with the simpler name (`separator-tokens`), then progress to the more complex name (`*non*-separator-tokens`)

````suggestion
Add a character to the `separator-tokens` list to use it as a word separator:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["&sect;", "&sep"]'
```

Add a character to the `non-separator-tokens` list when you don't want Meilisearch to use it to separate words:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/non-separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["@", "#", "&"]'
```
````

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

> ## Load a user-defined dictionary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Load user-defined dictionaries
```

> The Meilisearch word segmentation relies on separators and language-based dictionaries to segment words. This segmentation could be more accurate on technical or use-case-specific vocabulary (like "G/Box" to say "Gear Box") or proper nouns (like "J. R. R." when parsing "J. R. R. Tolkien"). The `dictionary` setting improves this accuracy by defining a list of words that would be segmented as described in the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meilisearch word segmentation also relies on language-based dictionaries to segment words. Use the `dictionary` index setting to expand the default dictionaries and improve accuracy when working with datasets using domain-specific terms:
```

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/dictionary' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."]'
```

> These feature synergies well with the `stopWords` or the `synonyms` settings allowing to segment words and correctly retrieve what you expect:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature can be used together with the `stopWords` and `synonyms` index settings:
```

```json
{
    "dictionary": ["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."],
    "synonyms": {
            "J.R.R.": ["jrr", "J. R. R."],
            "J. R. R.": ["jrr", "J.R.R."],
            "jrr": ["J.R.R.", "J. R. R."],
    }
}
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Other improvements
TBD

# Fixes 🐞

> * Fix display of synonyms (#3946) @ManyTheFish

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix synonyms display (#3946) @ManyTheFish
```

# Misc

> * Dependencies upgrade
>   * Upgrade dependencies of the CI (#3871, #3969 and #3968)
>   * Upgrade Meilisearch dependencies (#3987) @ManyTheFish
> * CIs and tests
>   * Fix benchmarks CI (#3963) @irevoire
>   * Removed unnecessary borrow call that failed nightly tests (#3990) @JannisK89
>   * Expose a Puffin server to profile the indexing process (#3913) @Kerollmops
>   * Update and fix the Test Suite CI (#3918) @Kerollmops
>   * Improve test suite CI for manual trigger events (#3989) @curquiza
> * Documentation
>   * Update README.md (#3895 and #3932) @ferdi05 & @Strift
> * Misc

Reviewer 2: Seems unnecessary to have sublists here, especially as the last one is a repetition of the section title (that is, `# Misc`).

```suggestion
  * Upgrade Meilisearch dependencies (#3987) @ManyTheFish
  * Upgrade CI dependencies (#3871, #3969 and #3968)
  * Fix CI benchmarks (#3963) @irevoire
  * Removed `borrow` call causing failed nightly tests (#3990) @JannisK89
  * Expose Puffin server to profile the indexing process (#3913) @Kerollmops
  * Update and fix the CI Test Suite (#3918) @Kerollmops
  * Improve CI test suite for manual trigger events (#3989) @curquiza
  * Update README.md (#3895 and #3932) @ferdi05 & @Strift
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Other improvements

Meilisearch better hides your data and no longer shows hidden document's fields in error messages. In case you are trying to sort by using a field that is not sortable but there are some of them that are not displayed either, you will see a message like the following:

```
Available sortable attributes are: price, stock, <..hidden-attributes>.
```

Done by @vivek-26 in #3945

# Fixes 🐞

  * Fix synonyms display (#3946) @ManyTheFish
  * Accept the `null` JSON value as a value of the `_vectors` field (#3998) @Kerollmops

>   * Fix the ranking rule by temporarily disabling an assert in the bucket sort algorithm (#4013) @Kerollmops

Author: @Kerollmops looks like it's v1.3.2 PRs, I mean, they are in the v1.3.2 Milestones. Where is the error, in this changelogs or the milestones linked to the PRs?

Reviewer: Indeed, it's a mistake. Those changes are in v1.3.2. Sorry for that!

# Misc

>   * Bump charabia to 0.8.3 (#4008) @Kerollmops

Author: @Kerollmops same looks like it's not a PR for v1.4.0 can you confirm

Reviewer: Nope, it has been done in v1.3.2. I don't know what I did there.

  * Update and fix the CI Test Suite (#3918) @Kerollmops
  * Improve CI test suite for manual trigger events (#3989) @curquiza
  * Update README.md (#3895 and #3932) @ferdi05 & @Strift

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @JannisK89, @vivek-26

> - [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @vvv

Reviewer: I'm really confused here. I don't know where I found a contribution from him 😔 Sorry!
